# Garwick-and-Modified-Garwick
Garwick and Modified Garwick

In order to illustrate the purpose of the Garwick & Modified Garwick Algorithm, lets take an example. Say there is a very long table that is segmented into 21 equal sections. For visual purposes, lets let these sections be in consecutive order. Now lets say Tim, Sarah, and John are given equal portions of the sections of these tables. This means that Tim, Sarah, and John all will receive 7 sections. Lets say Tim gets sections 1 to 7, Sarah gets sections 8 to 14, and John gets sections 15 to 21. Lets say there is a someone who randomly gives a cat to either Tim, Sarah and John. If Tim were to get the first cat , he would put his cat into section 1. If Sarah were to get the next cat , she would put her cat into section 8. If Tim were to get the third cat , he would put this cat into section 2. Hopefully you get the picture. Lets just say if Tim gets the 13th cat , but his sections 1 through 8 have already been filled with cats, than that means if the sections were not to be reorganized, than this 13th cat would overflow to section 9. This would mean that Tim’s cat would overflow into Sarah’s section, which would not make Sarah’s section 9 cat happy. In order to not make Sarah’s cats angry, the 21 sections would have to be organized in a way in which Tim’s cat will not overflow into Sarah’s sections. This means that some of Sarah’s unoccupied sections and/or John’s onccupied sections could be allocated to Tim (because Tim has received a greater portion of cats compared to Sarah or John). Garwick Algorithm basically performs this reallocation of this space in an efficient manner that would require few moves and few reallocations of space. Modified Algorithm is even more efficient than Garwick Algorithm. The following code below simulates how space is allocated on an (array) every time an index within the array is “taken”. NOTE: The code below contains THREE classes. Assignment3FinalFinal Class contains the  public static void main(String[] args), garwick Class contains the garwick algorithm, and ModifiedGarwickAlgoirthm Class contains the Modified Garwick Algorithm.

